---
layout: post
title: UR5E Robot Arm Simulation
image: "/posts/green_block.gif"
tags: [ROS2, Gazebo, MoveIt2, RViz, UR5E, Robot Arm]
---

Over the past few weeks, I’ve been diving into the world of robotics simulation using MoveIt2 and RViz in ROS 2. My project centers around learning to operate the UR5E robot arm using Gazebo for simulation. This work is a stepping stone to using the physical UR5E arm owned by my school later this semester.

<a href="https://github.com/JaredLBailey/AIPI540-CV-Module-Project" target="_blank">Version 1 - GitHub Repository</a>

___

# Table of Contents

- [Controlling the UR5E with Python](#ur5e)
  - [The System](#system)
  - [Build in Progress](#build-in-progress)
- [Simulating Today, Preparing for Tomorrow](#simulating)

___

# Controlling the UR5E with Python <a name="ur5e"></a>

In my simulations, I’ve been using Python scripts to control the UR5E’s movements. My code takes advantage of both joint angle selections and pose selections to guide the robot through block stacking tasks. Joint angle selection gives me control over each specific joint of the robot, while pose selection allows for specifying the position and orientation of the robot’s end effector. Together, these methods enable precise and flexible control of the arm's movements.

# Simulating Today, Preparing for Tomorrow <a name="simulating"></a>

While the Gazebo simulation has been an excellent tool for learning, I’m preparing to work with the physical UR5E arm at the end of the semester. My goal is to write my name in the air with the physical robot, showcasing precision movement and control. I look forward to refining my skills with ROS 2, MoveIt2, and RViz as I prepare.
